
CHAPTER SUMMARY

 This chapter has presented an overview of some
 important aspects of multiprocessor and multicomputer
 systems. These systems provide a means of solving
 otherwise unmanageable problems in an efficient
 manner.
 The RISC-versus-CISC debate is becoming increasingly a
 comparison of chip architectures, not ISAs. What really
 matters is program execution time, and both RISC and
 CISC designers will continue to improve performance.
 Flynn’s taxonomy categorizes architectures depending
 on the number of instructions and data streams. MIMD
 machines should be further divided into those that use
 shared memory and those that do not.
 The power of today’s digital computers is truly
 astounding. Internal processor parallelism has
 contributed to this increased power through superscalar
 and superpipelined architectures. Originally, processors
 did one thing at a time, but it is now common for them to
 perform multiple concurrent operations. Vector
 processors support vector operations, whereas MIMD
 machines incorporate multiple processors.
SIMD and MIMD processors are connected through
 interconnection networks. Shared memory
 multiprocessors treat the collection of physical memories
 as a single entity, whereas distributed memory
 architectures allow a processor sole access to its memory.
 Either approach allows the common user to have
 supercomputing capability at an affordable price. The
 most popular multiprocessor architectures are MIMD,
 shared memory, bus-based systems.
 Some highly complex problems cannot be solved using
 our traditional model of computation. Alternative
 architectures are necessary for specific applications.
 Dataflow computers allow data to drive computation,
 rather than the other way around. Neural networks learn
 to solve problems of the highest complexity. Systolic
 arrays harness the power of small processing elements,
 pushing data throughout the array until the problem is
 solved. The departure from silicon-based computers to
 biological, optical, and quantum computers may very
 well usher in a new generation of computing technology.
